Description:
This is a helper application to check whether a number is prime, finding factors of numbers and finding prime numbers. At its core, the application confirms whether a number is, or isn't, a prime number. If verbose mode is used, and a number is not prime, then its factors will be returned along with confirmation that it is not a prime number. Additionally, the application will find all primes up to a given number and also provide the first n prime numbers. There is a type check at the beginning, but no other type validation on the core functions, as their input will be provided after the base validation has been doen by get_number(). Docstrings have been provided to assist a user with anticipated inputs and anticipated outputs. If this were intended to be released more widely, then more validation checking would be provided. Timeit is used to provide function timings. I used this to improve the functions to ensure they were efficient. There are two further extensions I have planned.

Firstly, to add web based functionality using flask to provide a modern interface, rather than using the command line.
Running the program as a service so that it is continually searching for new prime numbers. This data can then be written to a database and querying whether a number is prime or not will be a mixture of (i) looking at a database to see whether an entry already exists for this number; and, (ii) if not, calculating whether it is prime (and returning any factors if not) and then updating the database.